There are four .NET implementations that Microsoft supports:

.NET 5 (and .NET Core) and later versions
.NET Framework
Mono
UWP

.NET 5 is now the primary implementation, the one that is the focus of ongoing development.
.NET 5 is built on a single code base that supports multiple platforms and many workloads, such as Windows desktop apps and cross-platform console apps,
 cloud services, and websites.

.NET 5
======
.NET 5 is a cross-platform implementation of .NET that is designed to handle server and cloud workloads at scale.
It also supports other workloads, including desktop apps. It runs on Windows, macOS, and Linux. It implements
.NET Standard,so code that targets .NET Standard can run on .NET 5. ASP.NET Core, Windows Forms, and Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) all run on .NET 5.

.NET Framework
===============
.NET Framework is the original .NET implementation that has existed since 2002.
Versions 4.5 and later implement .NET Standard, so code that targets .NET Standard can run on those versions of .NET Framework.
It contains additional Windows-specific APIs, such as APIs for Windows desktop development with Windows Forms and WPF.
.NET Framework is optimized for building Windows desktop applications.

Mono
======
Mono is a .NET implementation that is mainly used when a small runtime is required.
It is the runtime that powers Xamarin applications on Android, macOS, iOS, tvOS, and watchOS and is focused primarily on a small footprint.
Mono also powers games built using the Unity engine.

Universal Windows Platform (UWP)
=================================
UWP is an implementation of .NET that is used for building modern, touch-enabled Windows applications and software for the Internet of Things (IoT).
It's designed to unify the different types of devices that you may want to target, including PCs, tablets, phones, and even the Xbox.

.NET runtimes
==============
A runtime is the execution environment for a managed program.
The OS is part of the runtime environment but is not part of the .NET runtime. Here are some examples of .NET runtimes:

Common Language Runtime (CLR) for .NET Framework
Common Language Runtime (CLR) for .NET 5
.NET Native for Universal Windows Platform
The Mono runtime for Xamarin.iOS, Xamarin.Android, Xamarin.Mac, and the Mono desktop framework


There are two supported .NET implementations for building server-side apps: .NET Framework and .NET 5 (including .NET Core).
Both share many of the same components and you can share code across the two.
However, there are fundamental differences between the two and your choice depends on what you want to accomplish.
This article provides guidance on when to use each.

.NET 5 vs. .NET Framework for server apps
=============================================

Use .NET 5 for your server application when:
============================================

You have cross-platform needs.
You're targeting microservices.
You're using Docker containers.
You need high-performance and scalable systems.
You need side-by-side .NET versions per application.

Use .NET Framework for your server application when:
======================================================

Your app currently uses .NET Framework (recommendation is to extend instead of migrating).
Your app uses third-party .NET libraries or NuGet packages not available for .NET 5.
Your app uses .NET technologies that aren't available for .NET 5.
Your app uses a platform that doesn't support .NET 5.