SDK and Runtimes
=================
The .NET SDK is a set of libraries and tools for developing and running .NET applications.

When you download .NET, you can choose the SDK or a runtime, such as the .NET runtime or the ASP.NET Core runtime. Install a runtime on a machine that you want to prepare for running .NET apps. Install the SDK on a machine that you want to use for development. When you download the SDK, you automatically get the runtimes with it.

The SDK download includes the following components:
===================================================

The .NET CLI.<br/> 
&emsp;Command-line tools that you can use for local development and continuous integration scripts.
<br/>The dotnet driver. <br/>
&emsp;A CLI commands that runs framework-dependent apps. <br/>
dotnet exec .sln/.csprof, dotnet run .dll, dotnet build .sln, dotnet clean,dotnet format[code format] dotnet restore. 
<br/>build the net application even msbuild also does the same but it makes the Rosylyn c# compiler to load in .NET f/w whereas dotnet build will load Roslyn on .NET Core SDK
<br/>The Roslyn and F# programming language compilers.
<br/>The MSBuild build engine.<br/>
<br/>The .NET runtime. <br/>
&emsp;Provides a type system, assembly loading, a garbage collector, native interop, and other basic services.
<br/>Runtime libraries. <br/>
&emsp;Provides primitive data types and fundamental utilities.
<br/>The ASP.NET Core runtime. <br/>
&emsp;Provides basic services for internet-connected apps, such as web apps, IoT apps, and mobile backends.
<br/>The desktop runtime. <br/>
&emsp;Provides basic services for Windows desktop apps, including Windows Forms and WPF.
